Chapter 5 on survey design - first draft review (#17)
tidy-survey-r/tidy-survey-book: 05-specifying-sample-designs.Rmd

```r
des_fay <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= num_range("WT", 1:20),
                type="Fay", mse=TRUE, rho=0.5)
```

#### Example {-} 

The 2015 RECS uses Fay's BRR weights with the final weight as NWEIGHT and replicate weights as BRRWT1 - BRRWT96 with $\rho=0.5$^[Using the 2015 microdata file to compute estimates and standard errors (RSEs):  https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/data/2015/pdf/microdata_v3.pdf]. On the file, DOEID is a unique identifier for each respondent, TOTALDOL is the total cost of energy, TOTSQFT_EN is the total square footage of the residence, and REGOINC is the Census region.

To specify this design, use the following syntax:

```{r}
#| label: recs
#| eval: TRUE
#| cache: TRUE
recs_in <- read_csv(here::here("RawData", "RECS_2015", "recs2015_public_v4.csv"))

des_recs <- recs_in %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights=NWEIGHT, repweights=BRRWT1:BRRWT96, type="Fay",
                rho=0.5, mse=TRUE, variables=c(DOEID, TOTALDOL, TOTSQFT_EN, REGIONC))

des_recs

summary(des_recs)
```

> In specifying the design, the `variables` option was also used to include which variables might be used in analyses. This is optional but can make your object smaller. When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Fay's variance method (rho= 0.5 ) with 96 replicates and MSE variances.` and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included as was done in some other design objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In specifying the design, the `variables` option was also used to include which variables might be used in analyses. This is optional but can make your object smaller. When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Fay's variance method (rho= 0.5) with 96 replicates and MSE variances` and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included as was done in some other design objects.
```

Reviewer: I know you are copy/pasting, but it looks very weird in the rendered book.  Especially with the period in the middle of the sentence. I recommend making these small edits to make it more readable.

The JKn method is used for stratified designs and requires 2 or more PSUs per stratum. In this case, each replicate is created by deleting one PSU from each stratum so the number of replicates is the number of total PSUs across all strata. The JK2 method is a special case of JKn when there are exactly 2 PSUs sampled per stratum. For variance estimation, scaling constants must also be specified.

#### The math {-}

For the JK1 method, the standard error estimate for $\hat{\theta}$ is calculated as:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\frac{R-1}{R} \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$
The JKn method is a bit more complex but the coefficients are generally provided. Within the stratum that had a PSU removed, the weights are adjusted by $n_h/(n_h-1)$ where $n_h$ is the number of PSUs in the stratum. The coefficients in other strata are 1. Let the coefficient that results for replicate $r$ be $\alpha_r$ then the standard error estimate for $\hat{\theta}$ is calculated as:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\sum_{r=1}^R \left(\alpha_r \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$

#### The syntax {-}

> To specify the Jackknife method, the type would be `JK1`, `JKn`, or `JK2`. Additionally, the overall multiplier for JK1 is specified with the scale argument whereas the replicate specific multiplier ($\alpha_r) is specified with the rscales argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify the Jackknife method, the type would be `JK1`, `JKn`, or `JK2`. Additionally, the overall multiplier for JK1 is specified with the scale argument, whereas the replicate specific multiplier ($\alpha_r) is specified with the rscales argument.
```

> The JKn method is a bit more complex but the coefficients are generally provided with restricted and public use files. For each replicate, one stratum has a PSU removed and the weights are adjusted by $n_h/(n_h-1)$ where $n_h$ is the number of PSUs in the stratum. The coefficients in other strata are set to 1. Denote the coefficient that results from this process for replicate $r$ be $\alpha_r$ then the standard error estimate for $\hat{\theta}$ is calculated as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JKn method is a bit more complex but the coefficients are generally provided with restricted and public use files. For each replicate, one stratum has a PSU removed and the weights are adjusted by $n_h/(n_h-1)$ where $n_h$ is the number of PSUs in the stratum. The coefficients in other strata are set to 1. Denote the coefficient that results from this process for replicate $r$ as $\alpha_r$ then the standard error estimate for $\hat{\theta}$ is calculated as:
```

```{r}
#| label: acsexamp
#| cache: TRUE
#| results: 'hide'
library(tidycensus)

pums_in <- get_pums(variables=c("NP", "BDSP", "HINCP"), state="37", 
                    puma=c("01301", "01302"), rep_weights = "housing", 
                    year=2020, survey="acs5",
                    variables_filter=list(SPORDER=1, TYPEHUGQ=1))

```

```{r}
#| label: acsexampcont
#| cache: TRUE
#| dependson: 'acsexamp'
pums_in

des_acs <- pums_in %>%
    as_survey_rep(weights = WGTP, repweights= num_range("WGTP", 1:80),
                type="JK1", mse=TRUE, scale=4/80)

des_acs

summary(des_acs)
```

> 

Reviewer: Other examples above had you calling out key features in the output.  Do you want to add that here as well to be consistent?

### Bootstrap method

In bootstrap resampling, replicates are created by selecting random samples of the PSUs with replacement. If there are $M$ PSUs in the sample, then each replicate will be created by selecting a random sample of $M$ PSUs with replacement. Each replicate is created independently and the weights for each replicate are adjusted to to reflect the population generally using the same method as the analysis weight was adjusted. 

#### The math {-}

A weighted estimate for the full sample is calculated as $\hat{\theta}$ and then a weighted estimate for each replicate is calculated as $\hat{\theta}_r$ for $R$ replicates. Then the standard error of the estimate is calculated as:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\alpha \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$

#### The syntax {-}

> If a dataset had WT0 for the main weight, had 20 bootstrap weights indicated WT1, WT2, ..., WT20, and $\alpha=.02$, use the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a dataset had WT0 for the main weight, 20 bootstrap weights indicated WT1, WT2, ..., WT20, and $\alpha=.02$, use the following syntax:
```

> des_acs

Reviewer: This output goes off the page on the rendered PDF, do we have anyway of fixing that?

> summary(des_acs)

Reviewer: This output goes off the page on the rendered PDF, do we have anyway of fixing that?

```r
des_bs <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= num_range("WT", 1:20),
                type="bootstrap", mse=TRUE, scale=.02)

```

> Note that the scale is usually provided in documentation and is a constant so is not provided as a variable in the tibble.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the scale is usually provided in documentation and is a constant, so is not provided as a variable in the tibble.
```

> When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Unstratified cluster jacknife (JK1) with 80 replicates and MSE variances.` and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included as was done in some other design objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Unstratified cluster jacknife (JK1) with 80 replicates and MSE variances` and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included as was done in some other design objects.
```

#### Example {-}

Returning to the api example, bootstrap weights were constructed for a one cluster design. 50 replicate weights were created on a dataset `apiclus1_slim` which has some familiar variables including cds, dnum, fpc, and pw but now additionally includes bootstrap weights pw1, ..., pw50. The scale $(\alpha)$ is $15/(14*49)=0.02186589$

```{r}
#| label: genbs

> #| include: FALSE

Reviewer: I just realized that you have this as `include=FALSE`, so maybe some of my other comments are not as relevant.  However, let's discuss how much detail about the data prep we're doing should be included, both code wise and text wise.

Author: Yes, that was too messy to include but wanted to generate an example.

> In bootstrap resampling, replicates are created by selecting random samples of the PSUs with replacement. If there are $M$ PSUs in the sample, then each replicate will be created by selecting a random sample of $M$ PSUs with replacement. Each replicate is created independently and the weights for each replicate are adjusted to to reflect the population generally using the same method as the analysis weight was adjusted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In bootstrap resampling, replicates are created by selecting random samples of the PSUs with replacement. If there are $M$ PSUs in the sample, then each replicate will be created by selecting a random sample of $M$ PSUs with replacement. Each replicate is created independently and the weights for each replicate are adjusted to reflect the population, generally using the same method as how the analysis weight was adjusted. 
```

apiclus1_slim <- 
  apiclus1 %>%
  as_tibble() %>%
  arrange(dnum) %>%
  select(cds, dnum, fpc, pw)

set.seed(662152)
apibw <- bootweights(psu=apiclus1_slim$dnum, strata=rep(1, nrow(apiclus1_slim)), fpc=apiclus1_slim$fpc, replicates=50)

bwmata <- apibw$repweights$weights[apibw$repweights$index, ]*apiclus1_slim$pw

apiclus1_slim <- bwmata %>%
  as.data.frame() %>%
  set_names(str_c("pw", 1:50)) %>%
  cbind(apiclus1_slim) %>%
  as_tibble() %>%
  select(cds, dnum, fpc, pw, everything())
```

```{r}
#| label: bsexamp
apiclus1_slim

des_api1_bs <- apiclus1_slim %>% 
  as_survey_rep(weights=pw, repweights=pw1:pw50, type="bootstrap", 
                scale=0.02186589, mse=TRUE)

des_api1_bs

summary(des_api1_bs)
```

As with other replicate design objects, when printing the object or looking at the summary, the replicate weights are provided along with the data variables.

## Understanding survey design documentation

> SRS, stratified, and clustered designs are the backbone of sampling designs and the features are often combined in one design. Additionally, rather than using SRS for selection, other mechanisms are commonly used such as probability proportional to size (PPS), systematic sampling, or selection with unequal probabilities.

Reviewer: It would probably be good to add a reference to a resource for identifying what PPS, etc is.  May want to add one sentence here as well since you're saying "other mechanisms" and be more specific.  Yes they are other mechanisms, but more clearly they are sampling strategies.

> des_api1_bs

Reviewer: This output goes off the page on the rendered PDF, do we have anyway of fixing that?

> summary(des_api1_bs)

Reviewer: This output goes off the page on the rendered PDF, do we have anyway of fixing that?

A common method of sampling is to stratify PSUs, select PSUs within stratum using PPS selection, and then select units within the PSUs either with SRS or PPS. Reading survey documentation is an important first step of survey analysis to understand the design and variables necessary to specify the design. Good documentation will highlight the variables necessary to specify the design. This is often found in User's Guides, methodology, analysis guides, or technical documentation.

> For example, the 2017-2019 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG)^[2017-2019 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG): Sample Design Documentation -  https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nsfg/NSFG-2017-2019-Sample-Design-Documentation-508.pdf] had a stratified multi-stage area probability sample. Counties or collections of counties were the primary sampling units which were stratified by Census region/division, size (population), and MSA status. Within each stratum, PSUs were selected PPS. At the second stage, neighborhoods were selected within the sampled PSUs using PPS selection. At the third stage, housing units were selected within the sampled neighborhoods. At the fourth stage, a person was randomly chosen within the selected housing units among eligible persons using unequal probabilities based on person's age and sex. The public use file does not include all these levels of selection and instead includes pseudo-strata and pseudo-clusters which are the variables used in R to specify the design. As specified on page 4, the stratum variable is `SEST`, the cluster variable is `SECU`, and the weight variable is `WGT2017_2019`. Thus, to specify this design in R, one would use the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the 2017-2019 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG)^[2017-2019 National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG): Sample Design Documentation -  https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nsfg/NSFG-2017-2019-Sample-Design-Documentation-508.pdf] had a stratified multi-stage area probability sample. Counties or collections of counties were the primary sampling units which were stratified by Census region/division, size (population), and MSA status. Within each stratum, PSUs were selected via PPS. At the second stage, neighborhoods were selected within the sampled PSUs using PPS selection. At the third stage, housing units were selected within the sampled neighborhoods. At the fourth stage, a person was randomly chosen within the selected housing units among eligible persons using unequal probabilities based on person's age and sex. The public use file does not include all these levels of selection and instead includes pseudo-strata and pseudo-clusters which are the variables used in R to specify the design. As specified on page 4 of the documentation, the stratum variable is `SEST`, the cluster variable is `SECU`, and the weight variable is `WGT2017_2019`. Thus, to specify this design in R, one would use the following syntax:
```

> SRS, stratified, and clustered designs are the backbone of sampling designs and the features are often combined in one design. Additionally, rather than using SRS for selection, other sampling mechanisms are commonly used such as probability proportional to size (PPS), systematic sampling, or selection with unequal probabilities which are briefly described here. In PPS sampling, a size measure is constructed for each unit - perhaps the population of the PSU or the number of occupied housing units, and then units with larger size measures are more likely to be sampled. Systematic sampling is commonly used to ensure representation across a population. Units are sorted by a feature and then every $k$ units are selected from a random start point so the sample is spread across the population. In addition to PPS, other unequal probabilities of selection may be used. As an example, in a establishment survey, a establishment that recently participated have a reduced chance of selection in a subsequent round of the same survey to reduce the burden on the establishment. To learn more about sampling designs, refer to @valliant2013practical, @cox2011business, @cochran1977sampling, and @deming1991sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SRS, stratified, and clustered designs are the backbone of sampling designs and the features are often combined in one design. Additionally, rather than using SRS for selection, other sampling mechanisms are commonly used such as probability proportional to size (PPS), systematic sampling, or selection with unequal probabilities which are briefly described here. In PPS sampling, a size measure is constructed for each unit - perhaps the population of the PSU or the number of occupied housing units, and then units with larger size measures are more likely to be sampled. Systematic sampling is commonly used to ensure representation across a population. Units are sorted by a feature and then every $k$ units are selected from a random start point so the sample is spread across the population. In addition to PPS, other unequal probabilities of selection may be used. As an example, in a study of establishments that conducts a survey every year, an establishment that recently participated (e.g., participated last year) has a reduced chance of selection in a subsequent round to reduce the burden on the establishment. To learn more about sampling designs, refer to @valliant2013practical, @cox2011business, @cochran1977sampling, and @deming1991sample.
```

```r
des_nsfg <- nsfgdata %>%
  as_survey_design(ids = SECU, strata = SEST, weights = WGT2017_2019)
```

## Exercises

<!-- For this chapter, the exercises entail reading public documentation to determine how to specify the survey design. While reading the documentation, be on the lookout for description of the weights and the survey design variables or replicate weights. -->

1. The American National Election Studies (ANES) collect data before and after elections approximately every 4 years around the presidential election cycle. Each year with the data release, a user's guide is also released^[ANES 2020 User's Guide: https://electionstudies.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/anes_timeseries_2020_userguidecodebook_20220210.pdf]. What is the syntax for specifying the analysis of the full sample post-election data?

```{r}
#| label: anes-ex
#| eval: FALSE
svy_anes <- anes_data %>%
  as_survey_design(weight)
```

> 2. The General Social Survey is a survey administered since 1972 on social, behavioral, and attitudinal topics. The 2016-2020 GSS Panel codebook^[2016-2020 GSS Panel Codebook Release 1a: https://gss.norc.org/Documents/codebook/2016-2020%20GSS%20Panel%20Codebook%20-%20R1a.pdf] provides examples of setting up syntax in SAS and Stata but not R. How would you specify the design in R?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The General Social Survey is a survey that has been administered since 1972 on social, behavioral, and attitudinal topics. The 2016-2020 GSS Panel codebook^[2016-2020 GSS Panel Codebook Release 1a: https://gss.norc.org/Documents/codebook/2016-2020%20GSS%20Panel%20Codebook%20-%20R1a.pdf] provides examples of setting up syntax in SAS and Stata but not R. How would you specify the design in R?
```

# Specifying sample designs and replicate weights in srvyr {#c05}

The primary reason for using packages like {survey} and {srvyr} are to incorporate the sampling design or replicate weights into estimates. By incorporating the sampling design or replicate weights, precision estimates (e.g., standard errors and confidence intervals) are appropriately calculated. In this chapter, we will introduce common sampling designs and common types of replicate weights, the mathematical methods for calculating estimates and standard errors for a given sampling design, and the R syntax to specify the sampling design or replicate weights. While we will show the math behind the estimates, the functions in these packages will do the calculation.

The general process for estimation in the `srvyr` package is to:

> 1. Create a `tbl_svy` object (a survey object) using: `as_survey_design` or `as_survey_rep`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a `tbl_svy` object (a survey object) using: `as_survey_design()` or `as_survey_rep()`
```

2. Subset data (if needed) using `filter` (subpopulations)

3. Specify domains of analysis using `group_by` 

4. Within `summarize`, specify variables to calculate including means, totals, proportions, quantiles, and more

> This chapter includes details on the first step - creating the survey object.

Reviewer: Should we mention that the other steps are covered in other chapters?

Some common terminology across the designs are:

- sample size, generally denoted as $n$, is the number of units selected
- population size, generally denoted as $N$, is the number of units in the population
- sampling frame is the list of units from which the sample is drawn

### Simple random sample without replacement

- Description: The simple random sample (SRS) without replacement is a sampling design where a fixed sample size is selected from a sampling frame, and every possible subsample has equal probability of selection.

> - Requirements: Must have a sampling frame for entire population

Reviewer: Something to think about for all of these.  Some are complete sentences and have periods at the end (e.g., the description here and the disadvantages in the SRS w/replacement below).  Others don't have ending periods (e.g., the requirements line here).  I recommend being consistent on these, and it may be easiest just to add periods for all of them.  Just make sure they are all complete sentences.

- Advantages: Simple, requires no information about the units apart from contact information
- Disadvantages: Sampling frame may not be available for entire population. Not feasible for in-person data collection
- Examples: Selecting lottery numbers - numbered balls are randomly sampled from a large pool and not replaced after selection

#### The math {-}

The estimate for the population mean of variable $y$ is:

$$\bar{y}=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n y_i$$

and the estimate of the standard error of mean is:

$$se(\bar{y})=\sqrt{\frac{s^2}{n}\left( 1-\frac{n}{N} \right)}$$ and

$$s^2=\frac{1}{n-1}\sum_{i=1}^n\left(y_i-\bar{y}\right)^2.$$

> This standard error estimate might look very similar to equations in other applications seen except for the bit on the right side of the equation $1-\frac{n}{N}$ - this is call the finite population correction factor (FPC). If the size of the frame, $N$, is very large, the FPC is negligible so it is often ignored. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard error estimate might look very similar to equations in other applications except for the part on the right side of the equation: $1-\frac{n}{N}$. This is call the finite population correction factor (FPC), and if the size of the frame, $N$, is very large, the FPC is negligible so it is often ignored. 
```

> To estimate proportions, we define $x_i$ as the indicator that the outcome is observed. That is, $x_i=1$ if the outcome is observed and $x_i=0$ if the outcome is not observed. Then the estimated proportion from a SRS design is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To estimate proportions, we define $x_i$ as the indicator if the outcome is observed. That is, $x_i=1$ if the outcome is observed and $x_i=0$ if the outcome is not observed. Then the estimated proportion from a SRS design is:
```

$$\hat{p}=\frac{1}{n}\sum_{i=1}^n x_i $$
and the estimated standard error of the proportion is:

$$se(\hat{p})=\sqrt{\frac{\hat{p}(1-\hat{p})}{n-1}\left(1-\frac{n}{N}\right)} $$

#### The syntax {-} 

> If a sample that was drawn through SRS and had no nonresponse or other weighting adjustments, in R specify this design as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a sample was drawn through SRS and had no nonresponse or other weighting adjustments, in R specify this design as:
```

```{r}
#| label: srs1
#| eval: FALSE
des_srs1 <- dat %>%
  as_survey_design(fpc = fpcvar)
```

> where `dat` is a tibble or data.frame with the survey data and `fpcvar` is a variable on the tibble which indicates the size of the sampling frame. If the frame was very large, sometimes the frame size is not provided. In that case, specify the design as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `dat` is a tibble or data.frame with the survey data and `fpcvar` is a variable on the tibble which indicates the size of the sampling frame. If the frame was very large, sometimes the frame size is not provided. In that case, the fpc is not needed and the design can be specified as:
```

Reviewer: We just discussed the fpc issue.  In the SRSWR below, you mention that it specifies the design is listed as "with replacement" because the fpc is removed.  However here, you mention that sometimes the fpc is not provided but you can still do SRS.  Add some text around how R will then consider it "with replacement" even though because it is so large it doesn't really matter.

```{r}
#| label: srs2
#| eval: FALSE
des_srs2 <- dat %>%
  as_survey_design()
```

If some post-survey adjustments were implemented and the weights are not all equal, specify the design as:

```{r}
#| label: srs3
#| eval: FALSE
des_srs3 <- dat %>%
  as_survey_design(weights = wtvar, fpc = fpcvar)
```

where `wtvar` is the variable for the weight on the data. Again, the fpc can be omitted if it is not necessary because the frame is large.

#### Example {-} 

The {survey} package in R provides some example datasets to use and those will be used throughout this chapter. The Academic Performance Index (API) was a program administered by the California Department of Education. These datasets are derived from that data and include a population file (frame) of all schools with at least 100 students and several samples from that data. A SRS of 200 schools was sampled and included in `apisrs`. The SRS sample data is illustrated below:

```{r}
#| label: apisrs_display
options(tidyverse.quiet = TRUE)
library(tidyverse)
library(survey)
library(srvyr)

data(api)

apisrs_slim <- 
  apisrs %>%
  as_tibble() %>%

>   arrange(dnum, snum) %>%

Reviewer: You may want to provide a bit more information about why you're doing this step.  I'm not sure I understand why you're sorting the data here, or narrowing their srs further.

  select(cds, dnum, snum, dname, sname, fpc, pw)

```

> School districts have identifiers `dnum` within counties and schools have identifiers of `snum` within districts along with their names, `dname` and `sname`. The unique identifier for a school is `cds` which is unique within the state. Additionally, the `fpc` is included as `fpc` and the weight as `pw`. This design should be specified as:

Reviewer: Should we start this paragraph by stating something like "Reading the documentation about this dataset provides detail on the variables."  This way we can remind the reader that we don't just know this, but it is available for review.  I think Chapter 3 will cover this, but always good to have a refresher and show it in action.

```{r}
#| label: apisrs_des
des_apisrs <- apisrs_slim %>%
  as_survey_design(weights = pw, fpc = fpc)

des_apisrs
summary(des_apisrs)
```

> Printing the design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design" which is another terminology for SRS. The ids are specified as `1` which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When looking at the summary of the design object, the population size is given a summary of the probabilities (inverse of the weights).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the printed design object above, the design is described as an "Independent Sampling design" which is another terminology for SRS. The ids are specified as `1` which means there is no clustering (a topic described later in this chapter), the fpc variable is indicated, and the weights are indicated. When looking at the summary of the design object, the population size is given as a summary of the probabilities (inverse of the weights).
```

### Simple random sample with replacement

> - Description: The simple random sample with replacement (SRSWR) is a sampling design where a sample is selected from a sampling frame with the units being replaced before drawing again so units can be selected more than once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Description: The simple random sample with replacement (SRSWR) is a sampling design where a sample is selected from a sampling frame with the units being replaced before drawing again, so units can be selected more than once.
```

- Requirements: Must have a sampling frame for entire population
- Advantages: Simple, requires no information about the units apart from contact information
- Disadvantages: Sampling frame may not be available for entire population. Not feasible for in-person data collection. Units can be selected more than once resulting in a smaller realized sample size. For small populations, SRSWR has larger standard errors than SRS designs.

> - Examples: Selecting items out of a hat but replacing them between each draw.

Reviewer: Do we want to have a "real world" example for these.  Below you say that you had to create an example since one did not exist, so it might be good to help people understand why this would be used.  Or is that out of scope for this book?

Author: I've added an example which is still a bit unusual but I witnessed in practice.

- Advantages: Clustered sampling is advantageous when data collection is done in person so interviewers are sent to specific sampled areas rather than completely at random in a country. With cluster sampling, a list of the entire population is not necessary. For example, if sampling students, you do not need a list of all students but only a list of all schools. Once the schools are sampled, lists of students can be obtained within the sampled schools.
- Disadvantages: Compared to a simple random sample, for the same sample size, clustered samples generally have larger variance estimates.
- Examples: 
  - Example 1: Consider a study needing a sample of 6th grade students in the United States, no list likely exists of all these students. Obtaining a list of schools that have 6th graders is more likely to be possible so a study design could select a random sample of schools that have 6th graders. The selected schools can then provide a list of students to do a second stage of sampling where 6th grade students are randomly sampled within each of the sampled schools. This is a one-stage sample design and will be the type of design we will discuss in formulas below.

>   - Example 2: A more complicated but realistic example is necessary when sending out interviewers to households for a survey. Counties could be selected as the PSU, then Census block groups within counties selected as the secondary sampling unit (SSU), and then households within the block groups. This type of design reduces the travel necessary for interviewers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Example 2: Consider a study sending out interviewers to households for a survey. This is a more complicated example that requires two levels of selection.  First, counties could be selected as the PSU, then Census block groups within counties selected as the secondary sampling unit (SSU).  Households are then randomly sampled within the block groups.  This type of design is popular for in-person survey as it reduces the travel necessary for interviewers.
```

Reviewer: I had a hard time reading this example, so I went ahead and just made some updates.  I tried to mimic the structure of the first example you had, to make it easier to follow between the two.

#### The math {-} 

> Consider a population where the are $N$ clusters and $n$ clusters are sampled via SRSWOR. Units within the sampled cluster are sampled via SRSWOR as well. Let $M_i$ be the number of units in cluster $i$ and $\bar{y}_i$ be the sample mean of cluster $i$. Then, a ratio estimator of the population mean is:

Reviewer: You don't use SRSWOR above, you just call it SRS.  Recommend using that here, or updating the above to specify WOR.

Note this is a consistent but biased estimator. Often the population size is not known so this is a method to estimate a mean without knowing the population size. The estimated standard error of the mean is:

$$se(\bar{y})=\frac{1}{\hat{N}_{pop} } \sqrt{\frac{N^2 (1-\frac{n}{N})}{n}\frac{1}{n-1} \sum_{i=1}^n (M_i\bar{y}_i -\hat{t}/N)^2  + \frac{N}{n}  \sum_{i=1}^n \frac{M_i^2}{m_i}\left(1-\frac{m_i}{M_i}\right)s^2_i }$$
where $\hat{N}_{pop}$ is the estimated population size, $\hat{t}$ is the estimated total, and $s_i^2$ is the sample variance of cluster $i$.

For estimates of proportions, the estimated proportion is:

$$\hat{p}=\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n M_i \hat{p}_i}{ \sum_{i=1}^n M_i}$$

and the associated standard error estimate is:

$$se(\hat{p})=\frac{1}{\hat{N}_{pop} } \sqrt{\frac{N^2 (1-\frac{n}{N})}{n}\frac{1}{n-1} \sum_{i=1}^n (M_i\hat{p}_i -\hat{t}/N)^2  + \frac{N}{n}  \sum_{i=1}^n \frac{M_i^2}{m_i}\left(1-\frac{m_i}{M_i}\right)s^2_i }$$

where $s^2_i$ is defined as:

$$s^2_i = \frac{m_hp_h(1-p_h)}{m_h-1}$$.

#### The syntax {-} 

To specify a two-stage clustered design without replacement,  use the following syntax:

> ```{r, eval=FALSE}

Reviewer: This code chunk has the old eval style.  Need to update to the quarto style like you have in the others.

des_clus2 <- dat %>%
  as_survey_design(weights = wtvar, ids = c(PSU, SSU), fpc = c(N, M))
```

where `SSU` and `PSU` are the variables indicating the PSU and SSU identifiers and `N` and `M` are the variables indicating the population sizes - the number of clusters and then the number of units within each cluster. Note that `N` will be the same for all records (within a strata) and `M` will be the same for all records within the same cluster.

> If clusters were sampled with replacement or from a very large population, a fpc is not necessary. Additionally, only the first stage of selection is necessary. The syntax below will yield the same estimates in the end:

Reviewer: Is the first stage only necessary when selected w/replacement?  If that is the case, then this is not clear in this paragraph.

```{r}
#| label: clus2wr
#| eval: FALSE
des_clus2wra <- dat %>%
  as_survey_design(weights = wtvar, ids = c(PSU, SSU))

des_clus2wrb <- dat %>%
  as_survey_design(weights = wtvar, ids = PSU)

```

#### Example {-} 

The `survey` package includes a two-stage cluster sample data, `apiclus2`, in which school districts were sampled and then a random sample of 5 schools was selected within each district. For districts with fewer than 5 schools, all schools were sampled. School districts have identifiers `dnum` and schools have identifiers of `snum`. The variable `fpc1` indicates how many districts there were in California and `fpc2` indicates how many schools were in a given district with at least 100 students.  The data has a row for each school. In the data printed below, there are 757 school districts as indicated by `fpc1` and there are 9 schools in district 731, one school in district 742, 2 schools in district 768, 6 schools in district 781, and 1 school in district 795 as indicated by `fpc2`.

```{r}
#| label: api2clus_dis

> apiclus2_slim <- 

Reviewer: As above, why are you creating this?  May want to provide a little input as to why you're doing this.

des_apiclus2 <- apiclus2_slim %>%
  as_survey_design(ids = c(dnum, snum), fpc = c(fpc1, fpc2), weights=pw)

des_apiclus2
summary(des_apiclus2)
```

The design objects are described as "2 - level Cluster Sampling design" and includes the ids (cluster), fpc, and weight variables. In the summary, it is noted that the sample includes 40 first-level clusters (PSUs) which are school districts and 126 second-level clusters (SSUs) which are schools. Additionally, the summary includes a numeric summary of the probabilities and the population size (number of PSUs) as 757.

## Replicate weights

Replicate weights are often included on analysis files instead of, or in addition to, the design variables (strata and PSUs). Replicate weights are used as another method to estimate variability and often used specifically so that design variables are not published as a measure to limit disclosure risk. There are several types of replicate weights including balanced repeated replication (BRR), Fay's BRR, jackknife, and bootstrap methods. An overview of the process for using replicate weights is:

1. Divide the sample into subsample **replicates** that mirror the design of the sample

> 2. Calculate weights for each **replicate** using the same procedures for full-sample weight (i.e. nonresponse and post-stratification)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Calculate weights for each **replicate** using the same procedures for full-sample weight (i.e., nonresponse and post-stratification)
```

3. Calculate estimates for each **replicate** using the same method as the full-sample estimate
4. Calculate the estimated variance which will be proportional the the variance of the replicate estimates

The different types of replicate weights largely differ in step 1 - how the sample is divided into subsamples and step 4 - different multiplication factors (scales) are used to multiply the variance.

### BRR method

> The BRR method requires a stratified sample design with two PSUs in each stratum. Each replicate is constructed by deleting one PSU per stratum using a Hadamard matrix. For the PSU that is included, the weight is generally multiplied by 2 but may have other adjustments such as post-stratification. A Hadamard matrix is a special square matrix with entries of +1 or -1 with mutually orthogonal rows. Hadamard matrices must have 1 row, 2 rows, or a multiple of 4 rows. An example of a $4\times4$ Hadamard matrix is below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BRR method requires a stratified sample design with two PSUs in each stratum. Each replicate is constructed by deleting one PSU per stratum using a Hadamard matrix. For the PSU that is included, the weight is generally multiplied by 2 but may have other adjustments, such as post-stratification. A Hadamard matrix is a special square matrix with entries of +1 or -1 with mutually orthogonal rows. Hadamard matrices must have 1 row, 2 rows, or a multiple of 4 rows. An example of a $4\times4$ Hadamard matrix is below:
```

$$ \begin{array}{rrrr} +1 &+1 &+1 &+1\\ +1&-1&+1&-1\\ +1&+1&-1&-1\\ +1 &-1&-1&+1  \end{array} $$

> The columns specify the strata and the rows the replicate. In the first replicate, all the values are +1 so in each of the stratum, the first PSU would be used in the estimate. In the second replicate, the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 3 while the second PSU would be used in stratum 2 and 4. In the third replicate the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 2 while the second PSU would be used in stratum 3 and 4. Finally, in the third replicate, the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 4 while the second PSU would be used in stratum 2 and 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The columns specify the strata and the rows the replicate. In the first replicate, all the values are +1 so in each of the stratum, the first PSU would be used in the estimate. In the second replicate, the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 3 while the second PSU would be used in stratum 2 and 4. In the third replicate the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 2 while the second PSU would be used in stratum 3 and 4. Finally, in the fourth replicate, the first PSU would be used in stratum 1 and 4 while the second PSU would be used in stratum 2 and 3.
```

#### The math {-}

A weighted estimate for the full sample is calculated as $\hat{\theta}$ and then a weighted estimate for each replicate is calculated as $\hat{\theta}_r$ for $R$ replicates. Then the standard error of the estimate is calculated as:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\frac{1}{R} \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$
Specifying replicate weights in R requires specifying the type of replicate weights, the main weight, the replicate weights, and some other options. One of the key options is for `mse`. If `mse=TRUE`, variances are computed around the point estimate whereas if `mse=FALSE`, variances are computed around the mean of the replicates which looks like this:

> $$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\frac{1}{R} \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\bar{\theta}\right)^2}$$ where $$\bar{\theta}=\frac{1}{R}\sum_{r=1}^R \hat{\theta}_r$$

Reviewer: Is there a way to highlight the difference between this one and the one above.  It's hard to notice the difference between `\hat{\theta}` and `\bar{\theta}` when rendered.

Author: I added a bit more clarifying text with both symbols shown.

The default option for `mse` is to use the global option of "survey.replicates.mse" which is set to `FALSE` initially unless a user changes it. Unless documentation states otherwise, for BRR, set `mse` to `TRUE`.

#### The syntax {-} 

Replicate weights generally come in groups and are sequentially numbered such as PWGTP1, PWGTP2, ..., PWGTP80 in the American Community Survey (ACS) or BRRWT1, BRRWT2, ..., BRRWT96 in the 2015 Residential Energy Consumption Survey (RECS). The {srvyr} package relies on tidy selection^[dplyr documentation on tidy-select: https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/dplyr_tidy_select.html] to choose variables. If replicate weight variables need to be specified with a character vector, use the `all_of` function to select variables from a character vector. Some other methods are also illustrated below in the examples but these apply to any type of replicate weights and not just BRR.

> If a dataset had WT0 for the main weight and had 20 BRR weights indicated WT1, WT2, ..., WT20, use the following syntax:

Reviewer: Below you explicitly state that "both are valid".  You may want to do that here too.

```{r}
#| label: repgen
#| eval: FALSE
des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= all_of(str_c("WT", 1:20)),
                type="BRR", mse=TRUE)

des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= num_range("WT", 1:20),
                type="BRR", mse=TRUE)

```

> If a dataset had WT for the main weight and had 20 BRR weights indicated REPWT1, WT2, ..., REPWT20, the following syntax could be used (both are valid):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a dataset had WT for the main weight and had 20 BRR weights indicated REPWT1, REPWT2, ..., REPWT20, the following syntax could be used (both are valid):
```

Reviewer: May also want to say, "Another example" or something else at the beginning just to indicate it's the same thing as what you have before.

```{r}
#| label: brr
#| eval: FALSE
des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT, repweights= all_of(str_c("REPWT", 1:20)),
                type="BRR", mse=TRUE)

des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT, repweights= starts_with("REPWT"),
                type="BRR", mse=TRUE)
```

If the replicate weight variables are on the file consecutively, the following syntax can also be used:

```{r}
#| label: brr2
#| eval: FALSE
des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT, repweights= REPWT1:REPWT20, type="BRR",
                mse=TRUE)
```

> Typically, the replicate weights sum to a value similar to the main weight as they are both supposed to provide population estimates. Rarely, an alternative method will be used where the replicate weights have values of 0 or 2 in the case of BRR weights. In this case, the replicate weights are not combined and the option `combined_weights = FALSE` should be indicated with the default value being TRUE. This specific syntax is shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, the replicate weights sum to a value similar to the main weight as they are both supposed to provide population estimates. Rarely, an alternative method will be used where the replicate weights have values of 0 or 2 in the case of BRR weights. In this case, the replicate weights are not combined and the option `combined_weights = FALSE` should be indicated, as the default value for this argument is TRUE. This specific syntax is shown below:
```

Reviewer: I may have missed this, but I don't think you talk anywhere about what "combined" means.  Might want to add a sentence about this.

```{r}
#| label: brr3
#| eval: FALSE
des_brr <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT, repweights= starts_with("REPWT"), 
                type="BRR", combined_weights = FALSE, mse=TRUE)
```

#### Example {-} 

> The {survey} package includes a data example from Section 12.2 of Levy and Lemeshow. In this fictional data, two out of five ambulance stations were sampled from each of three emergency service areas (ESAs) thus BRR weights are appropriate with 2 PSUs (stations) sampled in each stratum (ESA). 

Reviewer: Do we need to cite Levy and Lemeshow?

Author: Yes, I've added a note to do it later.

```{r}
#| label: brr_display
data(scd)
scdbrr <- scd %>%
  as_tibble() %>%
  mutate(
    wt=5/2,
    rep1 = 2 * c(1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0),
    rep2 = 2 * c(1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1),
    rep3 = 2 * c(0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1),
    rep4 = 2 * c(0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0))

scdbrr
```

> In the code above, BRR weights are created as was done in Levy and Lemeshow. To specify the BRR weights, the following syntax is used:

Reviewer: I would move this first sentence above the code to specify what you're about to do.

```{r}
#| label: brr_des
des_brr_scd <- scdbrr %>%
  as_survey_rep(type = "BRR", repweights = starts_with("rep"),
                combined_weights = FALSE, weight=wt)

des_brr_scd

summary(des_brr_scd)
```

> Note that `combined_weights` was specified as `TRUE` because these weights are simply specified as 0 and 2 and do not incorporate the overall weight. When printing the object, the type of replication is noted as Balanced Repeated Replicates, the replicate weights are specified, and the weight variable. When looking at the summary, the only additional information provided are the variables included.

Reviewer: should combined_weights be false?

### Fay's BRR Method

> Fay's BRR method for replicate weights still uses a Hadamard matrix to construct replicate weights but rather than deleting PSUs for each replicate, half of the PSUs have a replicate weight which is the main weight multiplied by $\rho$ and the other half have the main weight multiplied by $(2-\rho)$ where $0 \le \rho < 1$. Note that when $\rho=0$, this is equivalent to the standard BRR weights. 

Reviewer: Do we want to add a note as to what rho is?

Author: @rpowell22  Let's discuss how we might clarify this and add more context.

```{r}
#| label: fay
#| eval: FALSE
des_fay <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= num_range("WT", 1:20),
                type="Fay", mse=TRUE, rho=0.5)
```

#### Example {-} 

The 2015 RECS uses Fay's BRR weights with the final weight as NWEIGHT and replicate weights as BRRWT1 - BRRWT96 with $\rho=0.5$^[Using the 2015 microdata file to compute estimates and standard errors (RSEs):  https://www.eia.gov/consumption/residential/data/2015/pdf/microdata_v3.pdf]. On the file, DOEID is a unique identifier for each respondent, TOTALDOL is the total cost of energy, TOTSQFT_EN is the total square footage of the residence, and REGOINC is the Census region.

To specify this design, use the following syntax:

```{r}
#| label: recs
#| eval: TRUE
#| cache: TRUE
recs_in <- read_csv(here::here("RawData", "RECS_2015", "recs2015_public_v4.csv"))

des_recs <- recs_in %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights=NWEIGHT, repweights=BRRWT1:BRRWT96, type="Fay",
                rho=0.5, mse=TRUE, variables=c(DOEID, TOTALDOL, TOTSQFT_EN, REGIONC))

des_recs

summary(des_recs)
```

> In specifying the design, the `variables` option was also used to include which variables might be used in analyses. This is optional but can make your object smaller. When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Fay's variance method (rho= 0.5 ) with 96 replicates and MSE variances.` and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included as was done in some other design objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In specifying the design, the `variables` option was also used to include which variables might be used in analyses. This is optional but can make your object smaller. When printing the design object or looking at the summary, the replicate weight type is re-iterated as `Fay's variance method (rho= 0.5) with 96 replicates and MSE variances.` and the variables are included. No weight or probability summary is included as was done in some other design objects.
```

### Jackknife method

> There are two jackknife estimators implemented in {srvyr} - Jackknife 1 (JK1), Jackknife n (JKn), and Jackknife 2 (JK2). The JK1 method can be used for unstratified designs and replicates are created by removing one PSU at a time so the number of replicates is the same as the number of PSUs If there is no clustering, then the PSU is the ultimate sampling unit (e.g., unit). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three jackknife estimators implemented in {srvyr} - Jackknife 1 (JK1), Jackknife n (JKn), and Jackknife 2 (JK2). The JK1 method can be used for unstratified designs and replicates are created by removing one PSU at a time so the number of replicates is the same as the number of PSUs. If there is no clustering, then the PSU is the ultimate sampling unit (e.g., unit). 
```

#### The math {-}

For the JK1 method, the standard error estimate for $\hat{\theta}$ is calculated as:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\frac{R-1}{R} \sum_{r=1}^R \left( \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$
The JKn method is a bit more complex but the coefficients are generally provided. Within the stratum that had a PSU removed, the weights are adjusted by $n_h/(n_h-1)$ where $n_h$ is the number of PSUs in the stratum. The coefficients in other strata are 1. Let the coefficient that results for replicate $r$ be $\alpha_r$ then the standard error estimate for $\hat{\theta}$ is calculated as:

$$se(\hat{\theta})=\sqrt{\sum_{r=1}^R \left(\alpha_r \hat{\theta}_r-\hat{\theta}\right)^2}$$

#### The syntax {-}

To specify the Jackknife method, the type would be `JK1`, `JKn`, or `JK2`. Additionally, the overall multiplier for JK1 is specified with the scale argument whereas the replicate specific multiplier ($\alpha_r) is specified with the rscales argument.

Consider a case for the JK1 method where the multiplier, $(R-1)/R=19/20=0.95$ and the dataset had WT0 for the main weight and had 20 JK1 weights indicated WT1, WT2, ..., WT20, then the syntax would be

> ```{r, eval=FALSE}

Reviewer: You can remove the `eval=FALSE` here because you have it in the quarto comment style below.

#| label: jk1
#| eval: FALSE
des_jk1 <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= num_range("WT", 1:20),
                type="JK1", mse=TRUE, scale=0.95)
```

Consider a case for the JKn method where $\alpha_r=0.1$ for all replicates and the dataset had WT0 for the main weight and had 20 JK1 weights indicated WT1, WT2, ..., WT20, then the syntax would be:

```{r}
#| label: jkn
#| eval: FALSE
des_jkn <- dat %>%
  as_survey_rep(weights = WT0, repweights= num_range("WT", 1:20),
                type="JKN", mse=TRUE, rscales=rep(0.1, 20))
```

#### Example {-}

> The American Community Survey releases public use microdata with JK1 weights at the person and household level. This example includes data at the household level where the replicate weights are specified as WGTP1, ..., WGTP80 and the main weight is WGTP^[American Community Survey 2016-2020 5-Year PUMS File: https://www2.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/tech_docs/pums/ACS2016_2020_PUMS_README.pdf]. Using the {tidycensus} package^[tidycensus package: https://walker-data.com/tidycensus/], data is downloaded from the Census API. This request gets data for each person in each household in two Public Use Microdata Areas (PUMAs) in Durham County, NC^[Public Use Microdata Areas in North Carolina: https://www.census.gov/geographies/reference-maps/2010/geo/2010-pumas/north-carolina.html]. The variables requested are NP (number of persons in household), BDSP (number of bedrooms),  HINCP (household income), and TYPEHUGQ (type of household). By default, several other variables will come along including SERIALNO (a unique identifier for each household), SPORDER (a unique identifier for each person within each household), PUMA, ST (state), person weight (PWGTP), and the household weights (WGTP, WGTP1, ..., WGTP80). Filtering to records where SPORDER=1 yields only one record per household and TYPEHUGQ=1 filters to only households and not group quarters.

Reviewer: Need to use the dev version of `tidycensus` to avoid the api issue.
